                                   CTWM
                                   ----


CTWM is an extension to twm, originally written by Claude Lecommandeur
that support multiple virtual screens, and a lot of other goodies.

You can use and manage up to 32 virtual screens called workspaces.
You swap from one workspace to another by clicking on a button in an
optionnal panel of buttons (the workspace manager) or by invoking a
function.

You can custom each workspace by choosing different colors, names and
pixmaps for the buttons and background root windows.

Main features are :

 - Optional 3D window titles and border (ala Motif).
 - Shaped, colored icons.
 - Multiple icons for clients based on the icon name.
 - Windows can belong to several workspaces.
 - A map of your workspaces to move quickly windows between
   different workspaces.
 - Animations : icons, root backgrounds and buttons can be animated.
 - Pinnable and sticky menus.
 - etc...

The sources files were once the twm ones with only workmgr.[ch] added
(written from scratch by Claude Lecommandeur).  There were also some
modifications to some twm files.  This was back in CTWM version 1, by
now, there are a bit more changes and a few more additions.  It's
possible, thought it's doubtful, that twm patches can still be
applied...  with great care.

If you find bugs in ctwm, or just want to tell us how much you like it,
please send a report to the mailing list.


                                ----------

Configuration:

CTWM is build using CMake, which does its best to root around in your
system to find the pieces the build needs.  Occasionally though you might
have to give it some help, or change the defaults of what features are
expected.

In the common case, the included Makefile will do the necessary
invocations, and you won't need to worry about it; just run a normal
"make ; make install" invocation.  If you need to make alterations
though, you may have to invoke cmake manually and set various params on
the command line (cmake also has various GUI configurators, not covered
here).

The following parameters control the features/external libs that are
available.  The defaults can be changed by passing parameters like
"-DUSE_XYZ=OFF" to the cmake command line.

USE_M4          Enables use of m4(1) for preprocessing config files at
                runtime.  If your m4 is called something other than 'm4'
                or 'gm4', you may need to also set M4_CMD to point at it.
                (ON by default)
USE_XPM         Enables the use of xpm images.  Disable if libxpm isn't
                present, which is just barely possible on very old
                systems.
                (ON by default)
USE_JPEG        Enables the use of jpeg images via libjpeg.  Disable
                if libjpeg isn't present.
                (ON by default)
USE_GNOME       If defined, enables interaction with GNOME1 properties.
                This doesn't require any GNOME libraries or includes.
                (ON by default)
USE_SREGEX      Build with regex support from libc.  Otherwise, use an
                internal implementation.  You may need to disable this if
                your libc has no regexec() etc functions.
                (ON by default)
USE_SOUND       Build with sound support via librplay.
                (OFF by default)

Additional vars you might need to set:

M4_CMD          Name of m4 program, if it's not 'm4' or 'gm4'.
MANBASE         Base directory under which manpage dirs like 'man1' and
                'man2' live.  The logic in the process _should_ be able
                to find them, but if it fails (or guesses wrong) you may
                need to tell it directly.  And then tell us about it, so
                we can improve the automatic search.

                                ----------

Building:

In the simple case, the defaults should work.  Most modern or semi-modern
systems should fall into this.

funny prompt> make


If you need to add special config, you'll have to pass extra bits to
cmake via an invocation like

funny prompt> make CMAKE_EXTRAS="-DUSE_XPM=OFF -DM4_CMD=superm4"


Though in more complicated cases it may be simpler to just invoke cmake
directly:

funny prompt> ( cd build ; cmake -DUSE_XPM=OFF -DM4_CMD=superm4 .. )
funny prompt> make


                                ----------

Installation:

funny prompt> make install

                                ----------

There is a manual page, which always needs more work (any volunteer ?).
Many useful informations are only in the CHANGES file, so please read it.

                                ----------

Mailing lists:

There is a mailing list for discussions: ctwm@ctwm.org.  Subscribe at
minimalist@ctwm.org.

Repository:

CTWM development uses bazaar (see http://bazaar.canonical.com/) for
version control.  The code is available on launchpad as 'lp:ctwm'.  See
https://launchpad.net/ctwm for more details.

Further information:

http://www.ctwm.org/


# vim:expandtab:
